---
layout: class
---

**Official Description**: Pre-requisite: PLS 206, Applied Multivariate Modeling in Agricultural and Environmental Sciences, or a comparable graduate level course in statistical analysis. Some previous exposure to linear models and basic concepts of likelihood and probability strongly recommended.
 
In ecology and related environmental fields, the best available data about important questions are often imperfectly controlled, not well balanced, and/or full of missing values. Further, they often raise issues of nesting and autocorrelation. In this course, we introduce two key tools for analyzing such environmental data sets: classical mixed models and Bayesian statistical analysis. Throughout the course, the foundational tool is the linear (and generalized linear) model with random effects. The emphasis is on statistical model building; on practice rather than theory; and on understanding the methods rather than learning particular computer skills.

**Instructors**: Andrew Latimer, Ken Tate, Leslie Roche

**Other info and comments**: From Andrew Latimer: "The course is currently up in the air -- Ken Tate will not be teaching it again and I'm considering whether to
offer it or whether the combination of other courses available (especially
Statistical Rethinking and Applied Multivariate Modeling PLS206) cover
enough territory that there isn't much point in teaching this. I'd be
eager to get comments on this so please contact me if you have an opinion
one way or another `amlatimer at ucdavis edu`."
 
**Software Used**: In-class case studies conducted in STATA and OpenBUGS, but students welcome to use R or other software.