---
layout: class
---

**Official Description**: Seminar—4 hours. Prerequisite: course 211. Topics usually covered in an introductory statistics course with an emphasis on applications in political science—descriptive statistics for samples, probability and probability distributions, hypothesis testing, ANOVA, bivariate regression, and introduction to multiple regression.—II.
 
**Instructors**: [Bob Huckfeldt](http://faculty.psdomain.ucdavis.edu/rhuckfeldt)

**Other info and comments**: POL211-213 are often taken by students in the EPHE AOE.  This course deals with building, interpreting, analyzing and validating regression models, and is pretty rigorous.

Also, more information from the instructor:

> This seminar provides students with an introduction to the linear model.  The primary emphasis for our course of study is regression – the most widely used tool of the applied statistician in contemporary political science research.  Students who complete the course will have a working knowledge of basic regression techniques and problems, as well as gaining an appreciation of several more sophisticated and widely used applications.  The topics to be covered include simple and multiple regression, maximum likelihood estimation, issues related to model specification, dummy variables and the specification of conditional effects, analysis of variance, autocorrelation, specification error, heteroscedasticity and generalized least squares, the identification problem, instrumental variables, and more.  The emphasis of this course is upon the acquisition and understanding of analytic techniques.  It is intended to be an applied course that will enable students to become active participants in empirical political science.

**Software used:** R and Stata